The ethical responsibilities that come with building this application are essential. This application allows users to have a voice, while freedom of speech is vital in today’s community, it can also be quite violent due to disrespectful comments made towards different groups of people. It is our professional responsibility to be able to monitor what is posted on the application and delete any disrespectful content created. Furthermore, it is important that we keep a user’s data secure and do not misuse it in any way. Engineering solutions have had a positive impact on the global economy, you may now order products which are across the world from you from the comfort of your home. From a societal context, engineering has had positive and negative impacts. For example, the introduction of social media allows people to communicate with each other from anywhere in the world. However, individuals abuse social media platforms by (cyber) bullying, harassing, stalking, and other criminal offenses. Engineers try to resolve any possible user safety/privacy concerns during development but addressing social media platform user abuse is very difficult especially since it’s not easy to determine whether a user’s interaction is inappropriate/criminal computationally.
In conclusion, creating an application comes with ethical implications. It is important to ensure that user data is kept secure, consider all potential users, and that user content meets the highest ethical standards of conduct. Therefore it is important to monitor the user-generated content and address any inappropriate interactions to ensure that all users have an equal and respectful experience on the platform.
